Overview:
---------
This is an implementation of the community detection algorithm described
in the paper Dense Subgraph Extraction with Application to Community Detection
by Jie Chen and Yousef Saad [2]. It is not fully implemented as described in
the paper, see TODO.txt.

Software:
---------
There are no external dependencies for the program. An open source C++ linear
algebra library called Eigen is used, which can be found at [1]. However we
have included the header files so nothing needs to be downloaded.

Environment and compiler:
-------------------------
This code should run on any \*nix like system. It was tested using gcc version
4.6.4. The code is written in C++11. One known problem is trying to compile
with older versions of gcc that do not support lambda functions.

Instructions on how to run:
---------------------------
To compile the program simply type ``make`` and unix make utility will compile
the source into the binary. When you compile there will be a couple warnings
generated by the Eigen library code... ignore those.
To run the program in your console type ``./dse [graph file]``. By default the
output will go to stdout and status updates will go to stderr. The user should
redirect the output to a file, ``./dse [graph file] > outputfile``.

Instructions on how to interpret the results:
---------------------------------------------
The output has a very simple format. Every line of the output corresponds to a
community. On a given line the vertices that are part of that community are
space separated.

Sample input and output files:
------------------------------
See the files called "sample.graph" for the sample input and "sample.mycomm"
for the sample output.
The input format is an edge list. The first line contains n and m, the number of
nodes and number of edges respectively. The following m lines are the undirected
edges such as "0 1" indicating an edge exists between vertex 0 and vertex 1.
The output format is as described in the section above.

Citations:
-------------------------------------------------------------------
[1] <http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page>

[2] Chen, Jie, and Yousef Saad. "Dense subgraph extraction with application to
community detection." Knowledge and Data Engineering, IEEE Transactions on 24.7
(2012): 1216-1230.
